---
publish_date: '2021-08-28'
---

- Three.js journey fun, positioning.

- `mesh` and `camera` objects are inherited from the base `Object3D` class. which has the property `position`. the `position` has `x`, `y` and `z` properties to control the position on a canvas.
  - `x` is right - left
  - `y` is up - down
  - `z` is forward- back
  - mutating these values is synchronous, so execution order is important. it's written in a very imperative way.

## Useful methods

- `mesh.position.length()` returns the length of the object from the center of the scene.

- `mesh.position.distanceTo(camera.position)` return the distance of the object to a given camera object

- `mesh.position.normalise()` rounds up the length to whole number.

- `mesh.position.set()` is a quick way to move the position of an object. it takes 3 args `x`,`y`and `z`.

- View the a visual helper of the axes with `AxesHelper()`. blue = z , green = y m red = x. The length of the line represent `1` unit.

```js
const axesHelper = new THREE.AxesHelper();
scene.add(axesHelper);
```

- normalise your values and stick to it. e,g `1` === `1km`. It can change from project to project, but just be consistent.

- Scaling an object works in the same way:

  - `mesh.scale` which also has `x`, `y` and `z` properties
  - it has very similar properties to `position`

- Rotations are slightly harder

  - you can do this with either `rotation` or `quaternion`
  - the `rotation` object is an Euler class. This requires you think about what axis the object is rotating on.
  - To rotate an object you have to use `pi` either `3.14159` or `Math.Pi` a whole rotation is `pi x 2`
  - Warning, you can get into "Gimbal" lock when doing too many rotations. this is where changing the rotations does nothing.
    - to work around rotate the `x`, `y` and `z` properties in a different orders. remember how imperative the execution order is `rotation.reorder` can you change the rotation orders by applying a string in the order you want e.g `rotation.reorder('YXZ')`
  - `quaternion` is a mathematical way that can get around these gimbal locks. It's a representation of the rotation which will "just work". This is a black box for now.

- `lookAt()` is a really useful method to look directly at another `Vector3` object. e.g `mesh.position` . you can do something like this `camera.lookAt(mesh.position)` so the camera tracks an object.

- 3D objects get very complicated, so if you want to create lots of 3d object and group them use `new THREE.Group()`. Objects can be added to the group so that they can be rotated and scaled all at the same time.
