---
layout: ../../layouts/FleetingNoteLayout.astro
publish_date: 20210112
---

- Four disciplines of deep work:

  - Focus on the wildy important - focus on small number of highly ambitious goals.
  - Act on the lead measures - these are bheviours that drive success o lag measures. Lag measures are restrospective results which come after apply a behaviour. A good example lead measure is to _time spent in a state of deep work dedicated to your wildy important goals_
  - Keep a compelling scoreboard - visualise your lead measures. Can be as simple as measuring how long of a time you are spending a in deep work state with card on a peice of paper.
  - Create a cadence of accountability - using your scoreboard, commit to a goal e.g 5 hours of deep work in a week.

  > "It's not so much the intensity of deep work but the regularity"

- Be Lazy
  - Downtime aids insights - Your brain has two states. When conscious its like a dedicaed computer programe to work on particular task. When unconsious it's like a google datacenter sorting through unstructured data forming patterns and connecting data together. Downtime helps your unconsious mind sort through new information and diversify the way you look at specific problems.
  - Downtime helps recharge the energy needed to work deeply - Concentration requires directed attention. You only have a finite amount. Think of it like a rechargeable battery. Rest recharges your directed attention energy. By not resting your robbing yourself of this energy.
  - The work that evening downtime replaces is usually not that important - You need a shutdown ritual , otherwise your mind will constantly be in a state that _everything_ needs to get done. regualry resting improves the quality of deep work.
