---
publish_date: '2021-02-27'
---

- Worked on the SuperForum project as part of Full-Stack-React-TypeScript-and-Node textbook. Making use of the `useReducer` hook heavily for the the Register and Login components. The `userReducer` excels at letting you micromanage specfic properties in an object. As react does not let you mutate things directly, we can only mutate state via `useReducer` using the `dispatch` function which is made available when you deconstruct the `useReducer` function.

When we deconstruct `userReducer` we have get access to an array which contains two things, the first item is the `state` object, the second item is the dispatch function used for mutating the `state`.

The `useReducer` function itself takes two arguments. A `reducer` function (a function with a switch-case to action something dependant of the type action being called), the second argument is the inital state object. Bascially what first instance of you state should look like.

When using `useReducer` it's common to also deconstruct the function call in the return array and also then deconstruct the state object within that array like so:

```tsx
const [{ propA, propB }, dispatch] = useReducer(aReducerFunction, {
  propA: "",
  propB: "",
});
```

This is probably why `userReducer` is kind of hard to understand at first glance. This even before we have talked about the `reducer` function or in this example the `aReducerFunction`.

The body of `aReducerFunction` could look something like this:

```tsx
export const aReducerFunction = (state: any, action: any) => {
  switch (action.type) {
    case "updatePropA":
      return { ...state, propA: action.payload };
    case "updatePropB":
      return { ...state, propB: action.payload };
    default:
      return { ...state, resultMsg: "Not a valid action" };
  }
};
```

In this example, if a valid `action` has been provided i.e "updatePropA" or "updatePropB", we spread the orignal state back into an object and ensure that the property for the relevant propty is updated. spreading the whole original state into a new object and returning it is very much "React" pattern which follows the function programming paradigm of not mutating objects directly. This is our way of updating a reactive object in React.
