---
layout: ../../layouts/FleetingNoteLayout.astro
publish_date: 20210214
---

- More reading on Full-stack React , TS & Node. React hooks.
  - `useState`, replaces `state` and `setState` in class components. used to update single values rather than objects. For complex objects `useReducer` might be better.
  - `useEffect`, similar to `componentDidMount` and `componentDidUpdate` in class components. However, they are run before drawingon the screen happens. It takes a second parameter to watch a prop or state for changes. You use this hook this multiple times. Passing an empty array to the second parameter to this hook forces this to run only once.
  - `useCallback`, takes an instance of function for first argument, the second argument is an array of items that might change. This exists to save memory.
  - `useMemo` , similar to `useCallback`. it can cache the results of a long running task, will only re-run in the the provided props or state that it subscibed to has changed, these are passed in as a second array argument.
  - `useReducer`, this similar to react redux. takes two parmeters `reducer` and `initial state`. It returns a state object and and disapatcher. The reducer filters what to do based on the dispatcher.
  - `useContext`, this allows for global state which can injected into any child regardless of hierarchy. Alternative approach is to use React Redux.
  - `useRef`, used to access the instance of element and opt out of reacts model. this does not trigger a re-render if the value changes.
