---
publish_date: 20211212    
layout: ../../layouts/FleetingNoteLayout.astro
---
- Revising [Svelte](../index-notes/Svelte.md) basics and picking up from where I left off . Writing up [svelte-basics](../permanent-notes/svelte-basics.md)

---

- Two way data binding in svelte is too easy! Works basically exactly the same as `v-bind` in vue
```
<script>
	let name = 'world';
</script>

<input bind:value={name}>

<h1>Hello {name}!</h1>
```


In the DOM, everything is a string. That's unhelpful when you're dealing with numeric inputs — `type="number"` and `type="range"` — as it means you have to remember to coerce `input.value` before using it.

With `bind:value`, Svelte takes care of it for you:

```
<input type=number bind:value={a} min=0 max=10>
<input type=range bind:value={a} min=0 max=10>
```

`bind` works across pretty much everything you expect it to including `textarea` `input` `select` and even on elements that support `textContent` with `contenteditable`. useful for when binding `innerHTML`: 

```
<div
	contenteditable="true"
	bind:innerHTML={html}
></div>
```

---
Svelte provides reactive bindings to `audio` and `video` elements 
The complete set of bindings for `<audio>` and `<video>` is as follows — six _readonly_ bindings...

-   `duration` (readonly) — the total duration of the video, in seconds
-   `buffered` (readonly) — an array of `{start, end}` objects
-   `seekable` (readonly) — ditto
-   `played` (readonly) — ditto
-   `seeking` (readonly) — boolean
-   `ended` (readonly) — boolean

...and five _two-way_ bindings:

-   `currentTime` — the current point in the video, in seconds
-   `playbackRate` — how fast to play the video, where `1` is 'normal'
-   `paused` — this one should be self-explanatory
-   `volume` — a value between 0 and 1
-   `muted` — a boolean value where true is muted

Videos additionally have readonly `videoWidth` and `videoHeight` bindings.

---

get a reference to a DOM elements using `bind:this={canvas}`. This similar to `refs` in React. 

Note interacting with reference needs to be done after the component is mounted. Therefore, the logic all needs to happen within the `onMount` lifecycle hook.


---

[component bindings](https://svelte.dev/tutorial/component-bindings) are kinda mind blowing. It provides an API to get access to a childs prop

I'm still trying to get my head around binding to component instances - https://svelte.dev/tutorial/component-this ...

 ---
 
 Lifecycle events are almost the same as vue.js
 
 `onMount` &  `onDestroy` - do something after component is mounted and when it is unmounted/destroyed

`beforeUpdate` & `afterUpdate` - Do something before or after the component is updated great example use case here https://svelte.dev/tutorial/update.

`tick` - is a promise that can be called anytime to ensure that any pending updates have been completed before running something next. - https://svelte.dev/tutorial/tick

---

svelte stores is sveltes built-in global state management solution. Sort of like react context or Vuex, but it's much easier to reason with!

*`writables`* - is a mutable reactive object which has a `set` , and `update` methods

*`readables`* - is a read only object. It is instantiated  as a function , first arg is the inital value, the second is a callback which provides  a `set` and `stop`  functions. `set` is called on the first subscription. `stop` is called on the last unsubscribe

*`derived`* - is a way to leverage the value from a different store - https://svelte.dev/tutorial/derived-stores

Nice way to keep store logic "clean" - https://svelte.dev/tutorial/custom-stores . A "custom" svelte store only needs to be an object that exposes a `subscribe` method and it is automatically a svelte store.


`bind` works on writable svelte stores - https://svelte.dev/tutorial/store-bindings

