---
publish_date: 20220106    
layout: ../../layouts/FleetingNoteLayout.astro
---
- It's a good idea to lint your project before committing , this can be done with [husky git hook](https://github.com/typicode/husky). This lets you run commands at certain stages of your git workflow
- we can use husky `pre-commit` hook to run a lint on files before committing to a repo. But this will lint all your files in your project, even the ones that you are not committing potentially blocking your work which can be pretty annoying
- [lint-staged](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged), this lets us run a command for only files that have been staged. We can configure husky to run `lint-staged` instead.

---

- CSS transitions  when changing routes with Next.js  can be really tricky due to fact changing  routes on next cause a full page refresh, therefore if you try to add an `onClick` handler to append a class to an element the following happens:
	 1. click element too add a class with an animation.
	 2. the animation starts...but...
	 3. the whole page re-renders cutting off the animation

so how can solve this?

Can we either run the animation i.e add the class after everything has finishing re-rendering?
> i dont think so....

Or can we ensure the animation has time to run before the whole page re-renders.

[next-page-transitions](https://github.com/illinois/next-page-transitions), solves this.
>it solves the problem of making sure only one page component is mounted at a time and that the next page isn't mounted until the previous one has completed its exit animation.

The `timeout` prop is particularly useful. It lets you delay how long it takes for the next page to render.