---
---

- Read some more Full-stack React , TS & Node. Learning about React lifecycle methods in class components

  - When a component is mounting we have access to the follow methods:
    - `constructor` the class contructor used for initalising state
    - `getDerivedStateFromProps` , used for basing state on prop from a parent component. Use carefully as can cause re-renders
    - `render` used to render out JSX
    - `componentDidMount`, happens after a component has initialised . A good place for API calls.
    - ` UNSAFE_componentWillMount`, as the methods implies, legacy method. Avoid!
  - when a component is updating, we have access to the following methods:
    - `shouldComponentUpdate`, used to decide if a re-redner should happen or not.
    - `getSnapshotBeforeUpdate`, capture the state of the dom before a render happens. Usually used alongside `componentDidUpdate`
    - `componentDidUpdate`, run immediately after a re-render completes. Can make additional changes to the dom here, or after state. Important to have an exit condition so you dont create an infinite loop.
  - when a component is unmounting, we have access to the following methods:
    - `componentWillUnmount`, used for cleanup work like removing event listeners or subscriptions
  - Tap into these lifecyles to help control re-renders. If re-renders get out of controls, the UX will suffer.

  - React team recommendations:
    - `componentDidUpdate` is useful for triggering behaviour based on a prop change.
    - ` React.memo` can control re-renders only when a prop has changed instead of when the parent changes.
    - Make your component fully controlled, so it has no state of it's own. this usually means drilling a prop down many components deeps which can be annoying.
    - use `componentDidMount` for rendering state based on an API call. Note `componentDidMount` only ever runs just once.
    - `ComponentDidUpdate`is useful for managing state based on prop changes. But generally try to avoid using derived state. Try to just use props directly and have state managed from a parent component.
